README.md, before:

# Causal Entropic Forces

TODO: Investingate discounting.

Reimplementation of [Causal Entropic Forces](http://math.mit.edu/~freer/papers/PhysRevLett_110-168702.pdf), bolstered by pseudocode and equations in [supplementary material](https://journals.aps.org/prl/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevLett.110.168702).

The algorithm is able to find policies unsupervised from an environment, provided it can interact with the environment beforehand. To do this, it iteratively finds the next best move it can take, represented in the below diagrams by the thick black arrow.

First, it generates random walks throughout the environment to sample the evolution of the environment and agent.
![lightCone2D](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyth/causalEntropicForces/secondImplementation/images/particleBoxLightCone2D.png)

For each destination the random walks end, the algorithm computes the likelihood (conditional probability density) that the system will evolve to that particular destination. Then, a weighted average of all first steps are taken with this likelihood to find the step that maximises the number of potential futures.
![path](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyth/causalEntropicForces/secondImplementation/images/density.png)

The first 50 steps are here expressed as a light cone.
![paths](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyth/causalEntropicForces/secondImplementation/images/particleBoxLightCone.png)

## Prerequisites

Python libraries: `numpy`, `matplotlib`, `scipy`

```
$ pip install numpy matplotlib scipy
```

## Run current version

Properties of the agent can be specified in `config.json`.

```
{
	"environment"      : "<name_of_python_file_with_environment_class>",
	"num_sample_paths" : 200, // number of paths to sample
	"plot"             : {true, false},
	"steps"            : 100, // number of steps within the policy
	"cur_macrostate"   : null // for use in plotting light cones
}
```

To design your own environment, ensure that it contains the same methods and variables as those in `particleBox.py`. The agent can then be run by the following command.

```
$ python agent.py
```

## History
For more code and other derivative agents, download the v0.5 release

Commit message:

update documentation of Python 2.7 version

README.md, after:

# Causal Entropic Forces

An attempt to reimplement the particle in a box experiment as described in Fig.2a of [Wissner-Gross & Freer, 2013](http://math.mit.edu/~freer/papers/PhysRevLett_110-168702.pdf) and pages 2-3 and 10-11 of [supplementary material](https://journals.aps.org/prl/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevLett.110.168702).

The code in its current state does not reproduce the experiment reliably.

The agent in the experiment runs on an algorithm that three repeating steps.

1. Generate random walks throughout the environment from a start state.
![lightCone2D](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyth/causalEntropicForces/secondImplementation/images/particleBoxLightCone2D.png)

2. Use kernel density estimation to compute the likelihood of visiting a future state at the end of a random walk given the start state.
![path](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyth/causalEntropicForces/secondImplementation/images/density.png)

3. Update the start state to a new state in the direction towards the most-likely visited future state (given by black arrow).  As seen in the diagram above, the black arrow actually goes against the expected direction in the experiment, so there's an error with the code at the moment.

## Installation

Python 2.7 with the `numpy`, `matplotlib`, `scipy` libraries.

```
$ pip install numpy matplotlib scipy
```

## Run

Properties of the agent can be specified in `config.json`.

```
{
	"environment"      : "<name_of_python_file_with_environment_class>",
	"num_sample_paths" : 200, // number of paths to sample
	"plot"             : {true, false},
	"steps"            : 100, // number of steps within the policy
	"cur_macrostate"   : null // for use in plotting light cones
}
```

To design your own environment, ensure that it contains the same methods and variables as those in `particleBox.py`. The agent can then be run by the following command.

```
$ python agent.py
```
